Wellcome back! In the last video we had this problem of
the view getting a little bit ugly with our navigation
as we became smaller and
smaller with our viewport.
How can we fix this?
And here I'm going to show you a topic that actually
cover in my next course but just because it might
be useful for this case I'm going to introduce you
to something called media queries and media queries
allow us to create responsive websites and tell our
web pages what to do when the size of our screen
gets small or big.
And I'll link to this website over here.
But essentially what it allows us to do with media
queries we can have devices tablets laptops wearables
that have different screen sizes and tell it how
to display our web page based on those sizes.
For example here it shows us what our viewports
will be for iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S and using this
syntax of @ media only screen and giving it
some min-device-width and max-device-width.
We can tell it how to display our page or have CSS
properties specific to just this view size that
is minimum view size is going to
be 320 pixel and max is 480 pixels.
And as you can imagine there is a lot of these
based on different devices and viewports.
Now things like CSS grid and flexbox actually resolve
a lot of this but I want to demonstrate just
one use case with our little example
that is this contacts getting smushed.
So let's create our own media query
for our navigation. In order to do that
all we need to do is say '@media' we say 'only
screen' and this is saying what do we want our media
query for.
And you can do things like print here for example
when you're printing something but 99 percent of the
time you're just going to have screen.
And here we're going to say 'and' we'll say that
'max-width' is going to be 600px that is use this
CSS properties that we're about to define right
here only when max-width its 600px that is as soon
as this is less than 600px
in witdh, apply these properties here so
I'll say main-nav will have a font-size.
We can do different things here but let's just say
a smaller font size and maybe will do padding of
zero just so they're closer together.
If I save this and refresh.
Look at that!
Everything fits in because our font size is smaller
and we've removed any extra padding that we may
have.
But notice here as I make things bigger you see
that as soon as I pass 600px we restore our
defaults with larger font size.
Look at that!
So using media queries we just
made our navbar more responsive.
Nice and easy.
And this is a common pattern that I recommend with
your navigation that is having our nav element with
an unordered list and an li list.
Our main-nav which will be a flexbox and we'll
have a push class that uses this margin left
auto
to push whatever we want to
our nav to the right side.
Usually something like contact or log-in
to have it all the way to the right.
So hopefully this wasn't too bad.
Like I said you don't
need to memorize this.
You can even copy the code that I'll leave for you
at the end of these videos once you get used to this
syntax you now have a solid
foundation to build the navigation.
But we have three more things to go so
let's get to that in the next video.